Yes, in a recursive function, return statements can be thought of as being "chained" together. Each return statement contributes to the overall return value of the function, and as the recursive calls unwind, each return value is combined to produce the final result.

Here's a simplified example to illustrate this concept:

```java
public static int sum(int n) {
    if (n == 0) {
        return 0; // Base case: return 0 when n is 0
    } else {
        return n + sum(n - 1); // Recursive case: return n + sum of previous numbers
    }
}
```

In this example, the return statement `return n + sum(n - 1);` is "chained" together with the return value of the recursive call `sum(n - 1)`. Each recursive call contributes to the overall sum, and as the recursion unwinds, the return values are combined to produce the final sum.

So, yes, you can think of return statements in recursive functions as being chained together to build up the final result.


it also include the if return to the chain. But once the recursive return is finished it start to unwind from the last I mean the rightmost. is that correct?



Yes, you're absolutely correct!

In a recursive function, the return statements within the function contribute to the chain of computations. This chain includes both the return values from the base cases (like the `return 0;` in the example I provided) and the return values from the recursive calls.

Once the recursive calls have been made and the base case is reached, the recursion starts to unwind. During this unwinding process, the return values from the recursive calls are combined according to the logic defined in the return statements, starting from the rightmost (deepest) call and working its way back up towards the initial call.

So, in summary, the return statements, including those in the base cases and the recursive calls, form a chain of computations. Once the recursion completes, the unwinding process starts from the rightmost call, combining the return values until the final result is obtained.


wow. this topic is confusing and challenging. I guess explanation is sometimes really hard.


Indeed, recursion can be challenging to understand at first, but with practice and patience, it becomes clearer over time. Explaining recursive concepts can also be tricky due to their abstract nature, but breaking down the process step by step and providing examples can help make it more understandable.

It's perfectly normal to find recursion confusing initially, and it's a common topic that many students and programmers struggle with at first. As you continue to work with recursive algorithms and see more examples, you'll likely become more comfortable with the concept.

If you have any further questions or need additional clarification on recursion or any other topic, feel free to ask!





















